Question here in the chat.
>> How do life lifecycle
hooks like before destroy or
destroy work inside the Composition API?
>> Yeah, this is a great question.
So if we look inside of our lifecycle
hooks, do I have it already.
The way to think about it is that
composition API doesn't actually,
as much as we're talking about it as like
a separate way of architecting your apps,
it doesn't break away from
how the component works.
So the question here regarding
like before unmount, so
basically destroy instead of destroyed,
think of it as unmounted.
All that stuff still happens at the end.
The only thing that's different about the
composition API is that it just happens at
the very beginning.
It's still all that other stuff you
expect when it comes to destroying stuff,
that still factors into composition API.
In fact, composition API will continue
to hit all these other lifecycle hooks.
So just to answer this question
a little bit more fully,
let me go to the pokedex here
that has the script set up.
So if in the event, right,
you're saying, Well, this component,
right, let's say, let me put the side by
side so we can actually see this together.
And then let me reduce that so
it's easier to read, okay?
So if you're trying to say that like,
okay, I have this thing where like right
before the component unmount
I want it to do something.
Sometimes that's the thing,
right, before it's destroyed.
The way you would do that is
you need a helper method.
And so we have,
just as you would expect it to be
called it's not called before unmount.
Because what we realized with conventions
is that this is really a lifecycle event.
So really all of our stuff
are prefixed with on,
like you would expect for
other events, on click on key up.
Well, since this is a helper method for
an event for
lifecycle hooks onBeforeMount
is what we would import.
Sorry, onBeforeUnmount because that's
particularly what we were talking about.
So we would say onBeforeUnmount.
There we go.
And then, I usually like to keep my
lifecycle hooks towards the bottom
usually, but especially with composition
API that goes out the window depending on
how complex the code is.
So be very clear.
That is not at all a best
practice just kind of what I use.
I'm used to doing from
the the Options API.
So what we do is we would
call onBeforeUnmount.
And then it's a function that takes
a callback function of what we wanna do.
So in this particular case,
you might be like, do this thing.
And then that's it.
Essentially what you have done in
Options API you just defined it at
the setup level.
So the key thing again to remember is that
Composition API does not take you out of
the flow.
You're absolutely bought
into the whole thing.
It's just now you can literally
set everything up right
here at this one step and
then let it run from there.
Whereas as we saw with Options API there
is kind of a little bit more intricacy
regarding do your setup then
pass that into your options and
then options can do stuff from there.
So it's a style thing,
you'll figure out what works best for you.
But what I've done in this workshop is try
to present you with the different styles
so that you can get a feel for it and
figure out what you want for your apps.
Hopefully, it helps answer that question.
Question?
>> The composables.
Are they singletons that are around for
the lifecycle of the app or
if they're not being actively
used by components on screen,
are they tossed away and then re
instantiated fresh next time they're used?
>> This is a good question.
All right.
So the context set.
The question here,
let me go to the base-counter,
is around the idea of these composables
and whether they're singletons and
basically how permanent are they
in regards to the entire instance.
So, because we're not getting into
composable this means you are starting to
get into scoping concerns when
you're talking about JavaScript,
which was talking about like the learning
curve for Composition API starts to
increment a little bit when you
start to think about this stuff.
So to give you an example of this,
let's go back to that countStore.
Okay, so like any normal JavaScript,
what we can also do is we can also instead
create something called something
like useCount that is a function.
And so when you do this though, okay, and
let's say we have const localCount
= ref of, let's say 50.
And then we return newCount,
although let me actually move
this a little bit better,
globalCount and return localCount.
Okay, there we have that.
I think I did all this right,
perfect, okay.
So the other thing I need to
do is actually not have this.
This is more of like that sort of
factory approach to composables,
where what you're doing is you're running
a function that then has basically.
Well, we're about to see
shortly what it looks like,
it's easier to show than to
explain this in its raw form.
Okay, so rather than newCount anymore,
we got this function called useCount.
So all we can do now is we can say,
inside of the function we're going to
get the fact that we can do const,
okay, actually I did not like
the way I've minimized this.
There we go.
countStore.
Okay, very good.
useCount.
And then this is log countStore to start.
Let's not even return anything just yet,
okay.
Doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, if we take
a look at our console and refresh.
Doo, doo, doo.
Right.
Okay, sorry.
It's still looking for newCount in here.
So let me go ahead and comment that out.
And then where's newCount?
NewCount also exists
here inside of UserCard.
Let me disable that as well.
Not that UserCard, this UserCard.
Yep, Yep.
And then, this should be hidden too.
Okay, now we're good.
Okay.
So what we see here is that
globalCount gets two different refs.
There's a local and a global one.
And so, inside of here,
if we return countStore to expose
it out basically once again.
And then what we can do here is,
let's do two different buttons now.
We're going to have the ability to,
right, it's being referenced here.
So we're gonna say New counter here.
That's gonna add an extra
here that's easier to see.
And then let me not clip the browser.
Okay, so what I'm gonna do here
is when I say Global Count and
that's going to be countStore.globalCount,
and then Local Count
countStore.localCount, okay.
So this what we're seeing here matches up
to what we have here inside of countStore,
right?
So the difference here being that let's
go ahead and add some functionality here
where if we wanna go ahead and
increment stuff, what does that look like?
So we're gonna add
a button here real quick.
And we're just gonna write some inline
JavaScript just to make life a little
bit easier.
Where globalCount will
be incremented by 80.
So I'll just call that global.
And then we'll do localCount by 100.
Although let's make this more jarring,
so that's easier.
10 and 100.
Local, great.
So what we have here,
we have the references to it,
but we're trying to mutate
the count specifically.
And so one of the things we can do instead
is because of the way they're scoped,
we could do the increment
localCount here for example.
And here is where we can
say localCount.value +=80.
Expose increment local count like this.
And then since we have
that functionality shared,
now what we can do is we can say doo, doo,
doo, do countStore.incrementLocalCount.
Like that, save, refresh.
You see our local is now changing.
The reason this is different is
if we go back to our UserCard.
And let's do the same thing where
we import our use count here.
And so then we say const countStore =
useCount and then return countStore.
And this time,
we'll copy this exact snippet over here.
So it's very obvious.
Save, okay.
[COUGH] You'll see
a couple of things here.
One, because of the way the function
instantiates, as you would expect,
the localCount, like the component for
the base counter actually is holding
its own version of that localCount.
While over here we can see that
the UserCard has its own version of
localCount.
On the other hand,
if we have a function here that
allows us to incrementGlobalCount.
And then let's just, once again,
globalCount.value+ equals, let's do 1000.
Then we'll go ahead and
do incrementGlobalCount, great.
Now let me go ahead and switch this out.
Doo, doo, doo global, that's good.
Then we have this right here,
save, refresh.
We have Global changing in the top,
Global changing both sides.
And so I know this was a bit
of a long winded answer, but
it goes to show that it basically
comes down to your ability to scope
your JavaScript as you normally
would as far as generating those.
>> So what Joe's asking.
So let's say you hit a button that
rendered different components.
>> Yep.
>> So both the counter and
the user are off screen.
And then you reinstantiate
those two components.
Does Global Count start over or
is that state held by the app in some way?
>> In that particular case if the
component is unmounted and views already
tracking the global state, I would
imagine the global state would state but
the local state would get reinstantiated,
that's what you should expect.
>> Okay, [INAUDIBLE] uses it as
a singleton for the lifetime of the app.
>> Yep, there might be some gotchas
in certain situations, but again,
if you run into that, let me know we
can always take a look at that, but
that probably would go
beyond the scope of this.
Cool.
Okay, so
I know there is a lot going on here, but
I wanted to kind of provide
the full landscape for
those who aren't used to writing
their own JavaScript modules.
And to actually show you some of
the differences behind what happens when
you use the function to invoke it
versus just exporting a constant and
just give you some
different options there.